https://answers.launchpad.net/seq24/+question/63587

Seq24

Asked by alte_frequenze on 2009-03-09

I implemented the mute group feature (like group mute key in hw sequencer -
i have a yamaha rm1x) in seq24 (0.9.0).  Would you like to taste it? I
love!!

remember: groups work with playing screen set only.  so change the screenset
and give the command to make it the playing one (i set the HOME key for
this) Everything is configurable as the original sw with the .seq24rc file.

Mute groups

You can mute-unmute (according to the group definition) all traks in the
playing screen set, that is the only one who have sequences playing (like
live sequencer).

BPM The ; and ' keys will increase/decrease tempo
bpm up and down, screen set up and down.

Holding 'Right Ctrl' will queue a on/off toggle for a sequence when the loop
ends.

keep queue

Pushing the selected key (see .seq24rc file) you enter in queue mode until
you press 'Right Ctrl'.

[3b] Options Window

This window allows us to select which sequence gets midi After the list of
sequences and their midi events, you can set seq24 to handle midi events and
change the following:

mute in group

This controls 32 group of mutes in the same mode of [midi-control].  A group
is a set of sequences that can change the playing state together.  Groups
work with the 32 sequences in the playing screen set (see after).

replace, snapshot, queue, group mute active, group mute in learning mode and
set the actual screen set as playing ( see the end of 3a )

[mute-group]

Here there are the definitions of the state of the 32 sequeces of the
playing sreen set when a group is selected.

[midi-clock]

The keyboard control is a dump of the keys that seq24 recognises and its
corresponding sequence number.

[keyboard-group]

Same as keyboard-control, but to control groups.

There are also the modifier keys: screen set up, down, play, group on, group
off, learn, replace, snapshot, queue and keep queue ( see the end of 3a ).

To get the correct keys, run seq24 with --show_keys.  (DOES NOT EXIST IN
SEQ24)

emuse (goemusic) said on 2009-03-18:   #3

is this a windows patch? I'm using linux and I'm not able to apply it. Might
also be the copy/past into a text editor that causes line end problems?  If
I'm wrong, which patch options should I use?

emuse (goemusic) said on 2009-03-18:   #4

I have reproduced your patch manually (yes !). and compiled successfully on
linux. Need to understand now how it works ;) Let me know if you need this
patch version for your purposes as a file or if you want to post it at the
seq24 sourceforge mailing list or if you want me to post it. I think there
are many of us interested in having those features.  To the seq24
developers: can I deposit this patch somewhere here as a file (I still think
there were also copy/paste issues that made the original patch fail in my
case, so a file would be best).

alte_frequenze (alte-frequenze) said on 2009-03-19:   #5

Thanx for the interest.  I would be pleased if you contribute in making
comprehensible the documentation (SEQ24 file) for changes.  Maybe others can
appreciate.

emuse (goemusic) said on 2009-03-20:   #6

here are some suggestions for the documentation. Patch is against
0.9.0original SEQ24 file.  I found that two points needed to be said
somewhere, at least I was puzzled for a while ;) :

1) Group Learn is a modifier key to be pressed TOGETHER with the toggle key
and

2) The Group on/off keys are there to enable/disable the whole feature, NOT
to toggle group states...

Everything works great here, I just noted some strange behavior when using
the queue function together with groups, still have to find out what exactly
happens....

It's really nice to have, I actually was waiting for this since a while ago
(look into the blueprints 'sequence selection patterns....' ;) )

Mute/Unmute patterns (Groups)

You can toggle the playing status of up to 32 previously defined mute/unmute
patterns (groups) in the active screen set, similar to hardware sequencers.
This is done either by one of the 'group toggle' keys or by a MIDI
controller, both assigned in the .seq24rc file .  A Mute/Unmute pattern
(group) is stored by holding a 'group learn' key while pressing the
corresponding 'group toggle' key.  There are also keys assigned to turn
on/off the group functionality.

Replace

Holding down 'Left Ctrl' while selecting a sequence will mute all other
sequences and turn on the selected

Queue

Holding 'Right Ctrl' will queue a on/off toggle for a sequence when the loop
ends. Queue also works for mute/unmute patterns (groups), in this case every
sequence will toggle its status after its individual loop end.

keep queue

Pressing the 'keep queue' key assigned in the .seq24rc file activates
permanent queue mode until you use the temporary Queue function again
pressing 'Right Ctrl'.

[3b] Options Window

# mute in group

This section controls 32 groups of mutes in the same way as defined for
[midi-control]. A group is set of sequences that can toggle their playing
state together.  Every group contains all 32 sequences in the active screen
set (see after).

[mute-group]

Here there are the definitions of the state of the 32 sequences in the
playing screen set when a group is selected.  group [state of the first 8
sequences] [second 8] [third 8] [fourth 8]

After the list of sequences and their midi events, you can set seq24 to
handle midi events and change the following:

[keyboard-control]

The keyboard control is a dump of the keys that seq24 recognises and its
corresponding sequence number.  Note that the first number corresponds to
the number of sequences in the active screen set.

[keyboard-group]

Same as keyboard-control, but to control groups.

To see the required key codes when pressed, run seq24 with --show_keys.

Seq24 will overwrite the .seq24rc file on quit. You should therefore quit
seq24 before doing modifications to the .seq24rc file.

Some keys should not be assigned to control sequences in seq24 as they are
already assigned in the seq24 menu (with ctrl).

 [3f] JACK Transport

Guido Scholz (gscholz) said on 2009-05-28:   #7

your mute group feature was accepted for the seq24 repository. Can you
please send me your real name and E-Mail address to honour your contribution
in the changelog file?

http://linuxmusicians.com/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=2443&start=15

I've now managed to get mute groups working via MIDI - which is exactly what
I need - superb!!

For anyone else who is interested in working with Mute Groups - I'll point
out here the main problem that I had getting them working (and this applies
more to using it from the laptop rather than the Midi side of things)...

To set up the Mute Groups you press the 'L' button onthe top of the SEQ24
window, and then press a key on your keyboard to 'learn' or 'save' the
preset. Looking at the list of keys assigned for these mute groups (in File,
Options, Keyboard), the first bank of keys are ! ' ? etc and th second bank
are Q W E etc...  When you ask the program to 'learn' the key, you can't use
the SHIFT key, so (on Windows at least) you are not able to use the ! or
other symbol keys. SImilarly, you need to make sure CAPS LOCK is on before
you start the 'learn' process (as it won't recognise q only Q)

(I'm sure you could change all the key settings in the Keyboard screen to
help overcome some of these issues)

Once that is working OK, you can configure the MIDI settings in similar ways
to assigning midi commands to toggle loops - just note that you have to use
the 'ON' option in the .seq24rc file (which is the second set of numbers) -
you can't use the first set (used to 'toggle').

I will try and document in more detail all I've done to set this up on a
Windows Laptop (mainly for my benefit as I'm bound to forget) - and once
I've done this I'll post here for all to use in future....

--------------------------------------------------

https://community.ardour.org/node/3165

What I had to do is set seq24's options like this:

Enable Jack Transport
Enable Transport Master
Enable Master Conditional
Enable Son Mode

Then hit connect after firing and setting up ardour the way you did above.

Master Conditional will make it be Master only if no other JACK Transport
application is running at the moment. For me that worked well, used to be
offbeat also.

--------------------------------------------------

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToSeq24Introduction

https://bugs.launchpad.net/seq24/+bug/392093

Q:

Now I start Hydrogen, the drum machine, and load a pattern in Hydrogen.
But I don't connect in jack seq24 to hydrogen.

And now something magical happens... if I hit "play" on seq24, hydrogen
starts playing its own pattern!
Isn't it weird?

A:

Two things could be causing the "bugs" you are seeing:

* Seq24 is in "song" mode -> this causes seq24 to play the whole song (see
  song editor) when play is clicked and not the individual patterns
* Seq24 is configured to control jack transport -> all other
  jack-transport-using programs also start to play when you click play in
  seq24

  Both of the aforementioned things can be configured from
  File->Options->Jack Sync tab. To fix your problem, unselect "Jack
  Transport", select "Live mode" and, last but not least, click the
  Disconnect button.

More:

start seq24 in a console (gnome-terminal) or alt+f2 window with the
following switch:

seq24 --manual_alsa_ports

JACK:

JACKing the Applications Together

Let's make the JACK audio and MIDI connections.

Open up JACK Control's Connections window by clicking the Connect button.
On the Audio tab, make sure that Hydrogen and ZynAddSubFX outpus are
connected to ALSA PCM's input (was most likely done automatically).
On the ALSA tab, connect Virtual Keyboard's output to seq24's input.
Connect seq24's first output to ZynAddSubFX's input.
Connect seq24's second ouput to Hydrogen's input.
Now close the Connections window, as all of our connections are made and
ready to go.

(There is a whole lot more setup discussed at the Ubuntu link.)

